1 
 
1 
 Program  Assignment 2 (Spring 2026) 
Due Date: June  02, 202 6 
 
Express Delivery  
Mary works at a n express delivery  company  and is asked to provide delivery plans for drivers . The 
company expects  the drivers to fulfill  on delivery plan as soon as possible  to expedite  delivery .  
A city map is a graph G = (V, E) with edge weight function  w:E, where weight w(i, j) 
denotes the time traveling between vertices (cities) i and j. For example, Fig. 1 shows a city map of 
7 vertices (ci ties). Let a path (s, v1, v2, …, vk, s) denote a delivery plan  in G which starts from 
s and visits v1, v2, …, vk, s in sequence.  Let the time for delivery plan (s, v1, v2, ..., vk, s) be the 
total time of d(s, v1)+ d(s, vn)+i=1k-1 d(vi, vi+1), where d(x, y) denotes the minimum time 
travelling between x and y. The minimum delivery plan  starting from s to destinations  v1, 
v2, …, vk is defined as the minimum time of the plan ( s, v(1), v(2), …, v(k), s), where :{1, 
2, …, k}{1, 2, …, k } is a permutation func tion. For example, in Fig. 1, cycle (1, 5, 7, 1) 
is a delivery plan starting from 1 in time 5 + 6 + 10 = 21 and cycle (1, 7, 5, 1) is also a 
delivery plan starting from 1 in time 10 + 6 + 5 = 21. Therefore the minimum delivery plan 
starting from 1 to de stinations v ertices 5 and 7 is 21.  
 
 
Fig. 1  
 
Assignment Description  
 

---
2 
 
2 
 Please d esign an information system for express delivery  compan ies to provide  a 
minimum delivery plan from  a start  to several destination s. Your system design must 
include the following four components:  
1. Environment Description : Begin by describing the environment of a city, including 
the meanings of vertices, edges and weight s. Then d escribe the environment of a 
express deli very company , such as the n umber of vehicle s and the capacity of a 
vehicle . In addition, the destin ations vertices could be for del ivery or pickup .  
2. System Design : Propose an information system that enables the company to query 
a minimum delivery schedule  from a start  to several destination s. The plan should 
include the detailed delivery schedule  for each  vehicle . Consider user interfaces , 
data sources, and how updates are comm unicated.  
3. Problem Definition : Clearly define the problems the system needs to address . 
4. Algorithm Design : Propose algorithms to solve these problems. For example, 
shortest path algorithms . At least one algorithm must be implemented correctly, 
with your implementation included in the report.  
Deliverables  (Due Date:  13:10, June  02, 202 6) 
 A hardcopy report  detailing your system design, problem definitions, and 
algorithm implementations.  
 An oral presentation  and system demonstration  to introduce  your work to the 
class . 
Grading Policy  
Baseline : Full credit for meeting the minimum requirements, including a clear 
description of the system environment, system design, problem definitions, at least one 
correctly implemented algorith m, and completion of both the written report and oral 
presentation.  
Bonus : Additional credit will be awarded for:  
 Defining more relevant and insightful problems  in the system . 
 Proposing a wider range of appropriate and creative algorithms.  
 Implementing mor e algorithms correctly and effectively.  
Grading Distribution  
 Written  Report : 50%  
 Presentation  & System Demon stration: 50%  
---
3 
 
3 
  
Report Format  
The report should be between 20 and 30 pages in length , formatted on A4-size paper . 
Please follow the formatting and structural guidelines below:  
A. Cover Page  
Include the following information clearly:  
 Course title and section  
 Student name  
 Student ID number  
B. Report Body  
 Use 1.5 line spacing  throughout the report.  
 Font size should be 12 point  for the main text and 14 point  for section titles.  
 Each page must include a page number . 
The body of the report  should include the following sections:  
1. Context, System, and Problem Definition  
Describe the environment, the proposed system, and the specific problems the 
system aims to solve.  (It is necessary to provide a detailed breakdown of the 
workflow and specific interactions involved when utilizing AI tools to complete this 
section .) 
2. Proposed Algorithms  
Detail the algorithms designed to address the defined pro blems, including any 
assumptions and design considerations.  (It is necessary to provide a detailed 
breakdown of the workflow and specific interactions involved when utilizing AI 
tools to complete this section .) 
3. Implementations and Results  
Present the implemented algorithm(s), describe how they were tested, and 
provide the results.  (It is necessary to provide a detailed breakdown of the 
workflow and specific interactions involved when utilizing AI tools to complete this 
section .) 
4. Discussion  
Analyze the strengths and limitations of your system and algori thms. Reflect on 
challenges encountered and possible future improvements.  
---
4 
 
4 
 Other Notes:  
 Plagiarism will result in a score of zero.  
 Please conduct your oral presentations in the spirit of collaborative learning, 
sharing, and mutual improvement. Learn from ea ch other by exchanging insights 
and reflections.  
 Please submit your assignments on time;  late submissions will not be accepted for 
credit.  
 
---
